<title> When Attacked By Ransomware, The FBI Says You Shouldn't Pay Up  </title>
<source> https://www.forbes.com/sites/haroldstark/2017/02/28/when-attacked-by-ransomware-the-fbi-says-you-shouldnt-pay-up/#139c450cf5e6 </source>
<date> 2017_02_28 </date>
<text>
And that approach probably works out just fine from a law enforcement organization’s perspective. However, from the viewpoint of a private citizen whose entire database has been held hostage by vicious hackers, not paying a ransom is hardly an option. According to the FBI’s own statistics, ransomware attacks are spreading like virus in the US alone, with a spike as alarming as $209 million in damages in the first three months of 2016. When you look at it, the reasons behind the spread of ransomware are quite easy to understand. The malicious coding can be acquired by anyone with an internet connection for as little as a hundred dollars on the Deep Web, the psychological pressure over losing one’s important data almost always ends up in a successful heist and the current law enforcement system can and does very little to prevent the situation from going out of control. That, however, is not to say that the law enforcement isn’t concerned. In a news report released in April 2016, the FBI expressed its direct concerns over the unchallenged growth of ransomware attacks and urged any victims to not give in to the demand for ransom unless all other options are exhausted. Unfortunately, however, as is the case with most ransomware attacks, the stakes of losing years worth of important data is always quite high and the ransom demanded usually very small,  leading most victims to give in to the attackers’ demands before even reaching out to law enforcement.
For starters, though, let’s try and have a look at what ransomware is, and what differentiates it from other types of malicious coding. The most common form of ransomware is one that infiltrates your network, gains access to your data and encrypts them using advanced algorithms to prevent you from accessing your own files. A demand for an aggressive amount of money, generally in Bitcoin, is then demanded by the perpetrator in exchange for the key that decrypts said data that has been hijacked. There are, of course, several other types of ransomware, such as the kind that block access to the entire operating system or the kind that attaches itself to a partition of the computer’s hard drive. Most ransomware come with some sort of encryption key that is used to unlock the stolen data files once ransom is paid, though there is absolutely no guarantee that the perpetrator will keep their end of the bargain once money is transferred.
The majority of ransomware attacks come with a set of identifying characteristics, such as the use of malicious coding that can spread throughout the network, the blocking of access to important data in the victim’s servers in a variety of creative ways, including the scrambling of file names and adding different extensions to prevent them from being accessed. Ransomware attacks also feature a time limit to add an element of psychological pressure against the victim, after which the data in concern is either stolen or deleted from the victim’s servers permanently. Attackers these days almost always ask for payment in Bitcoin, as the cryptocurrency is incredibly difficult to track as far as payments go.
The concern over ransomware lies not in individual cases but the number of cases reported each year, which makes it the most popular cyber-infiltration scenario in current times. According to the Cyber Threat Alliance (CTA), the damages caused by CryptoWall 3, a particular type of ransomware, hit $325 million in 2015 alone. As per statistics produced by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in the first few months of 2016, a single variant of ransomware infected as many as 100,000 computers each day. In the March of 2016, the number of computers infected by ransomware technology hit the absolute upper ceiling for the year, reports Symantec. While the cases, when considered individually, may not amount to much, the number of incidents reported worldwide in any given year is clearly a matter of global concern.
</text>

