<title> Inside the Profitable Underworld of Ransomware  </title>
<source> http://www.govtech.com/security/Inside-the-Profitable-Underworld-of-Ransomware.html </source>
<date> 2018_03_05 </date>
<text>
(TNS) — Last month, employees at the Colorado Department of Transportation were greeted by a message on their computer screens similar to this:
“All your files are encrypted with RSA-2048 encryption. … It’s not possible to recover your files without private key. … You must send us 0.7 BitCoin for each affected PC or 3 BitCoins to receive ALL Private Keys for ALL affected PC’s.”
CDOT isn’t paying, but others have. In fact, so-called ransomware has become one of the most lucrative criminal enterprises in the U.S. and internationally, with the FBI estimating total payments are nearing $1 billion. Hackers use ransomware to encrypt computer files, making them unreadable without a secret key, and then demand digital currency like bitcoin if victims want the files back — and many victims are falling for that promise.
Ransomware infects more than 100,000 computers around the world every day and payments are approaching $1 billion, said U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein during the October 2017 Cambridge Cyber Summit, citing FBI statistics. A study by researchers at Google, Chainalysis, University of California San Diego and NYU Tandon School of Engineering estimated that from 2016 to mid 2017, victims paid $25 million in ransom to get files back.
And one out of five businesses that do pay the ransom don’t get their data back, according to 2016 report by Kaspersky Labs.
Last spring, the Erie County Medical Center in New York was attacked by SamSam due to a misconfigured web server, according to The Buffalo News. Because it had backed up its files, the hospital decided not to pay the estimated $44,000 ransom. It took six weeks to get back to normal at a recovery cost of nearly $10 million.
More recently in January, the new SamSam variant sneaked into Indiana hospital Hancock Health, which decided to pay 4 bitcoin, or about $55,000, in ransom. Attackers gained entry by using a vendor’s username and password on a Thursday night. The hospital was back online by Monday morning.
Colorado security officials are still investigating the CDOT ransomware attack that took 2,000 employee computers offline for more than a week. They don’t plan to pay the ransom but offered few details about the attack other than confirming it was a variant of the SamSam ransomware. Security researchers with Cisco’s Talos, which shared the SamSam message with The Denver Post, reported in January that the new SamSam variant had so far collected 30.4 bitcoin, or about $325,217.
The reality is that people need to be smarter about computer security. That means patching software, using anti-malware software, and not sharing passwords and accounts. And not opening files, emails or links from unfamiliar sources — and sometimes familiar sources.
Webroot doesn’t have an official stance on whether to pay a ransom to get files back, but Dufour says it’s a personal decision. Cybersecurity companies like Webroot can advise whether the hacker has a reputation for restoring files after payment is received.
“Paying a ransom to a cybercriminal is an incredibly personal decision. It’s easy to say not to negotiate with criminals when it’s not your family photos or business data that you’ll never see again. Unfortunately, if you want your data back, paying the ransom is often the only option,” Dufour said. “However, it’s important to know that there are some strains of ransomware that have coding and encryption errors. For these cases, even paying the ransom won’t decrypt your data. I recommend checking with a computer security expert before paying any ransom.”
</text>

