<title> Bank fraud up as criminals hit individuals: Efforts by lenders to bolster IT security leads fraudsters to bombard customers with scams   </title>
<source> https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-4366670/Bank-fraud-criminals-hit-individuals.html </source>
<date> 2017_03_30 </date>
<text>
High street banks are losing the battle against fraud as criminals switch tactics to directly target customers.
Efforts by lenders to bolster their IT defences against hackers have simply encouraged fraudsters to bombard individual customers with scams, according to Financial Fraud Action UK.
Despite investing millions in tackling fraud, losses from fraud rose last year as banks became less effective at preventing scams.
Financial Fraud Action UK said this was ‘largely due to criminals shifting their methods away from using malware attacks on online banking systems, which bank security processes identified’.
Increasingly, it said, fraudsters are focussing on targeting individuals directly, which is harder for banks to stop.
The report said the main ploy used by criminals is the ‘impersonation and deception scam’ whereby they pretend to be from a ‘legitimate and trusted organisation’ such as a bank, the police, a utility company or a government department.
These scams typically involve the fraudster contacting the customer through a phone call, text message or email.
Often the fraudster will claim there has been suspicious activity on an account, ask the individual to verify or update their account details, or claim they are due a refund.
The criminal then attempts to trick the target into giving away their personal or financial information, such as passwords, payment card details or bank account information.
Financial Fraud Action UK – which represents banks - said its intelligence suggests criminals have also recently increased their focus on ‘phishing’ emails claiming to be from major online retailers and internet companies.
It warned these emails are an ‘increasingly sophisticated’ attempt to trick recipients into giving away personal and financial details, or into downloading malware software which hacks into their computers.
Several banks have been targeted by high profile cyber attacks that have attempted to exploit weaknesses in their IT systems.
Last November criminals launched an online attack against Tesco Bank that resulted in the loss of £2.5million from 9,000 accounts.
Others to have been targeted include Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest, Lloyds and HSBC.
The threat to Britain’s financial infrastructure from persistent cyber-attacks prompted chancellor Philip Hammond to commit an extra £1.9billion in the autumn statement to boost Britain’s defences against the growing online threat.
</text>

