<title> Urban Bungle: Atlanta Cyber Attack Puts Other Cities on Notice  </title>
<source> https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/urban-bungle-atlanta-cyber-attack-puts-other-cities-on-notice/ </source>
<date> 2018_04_06 </date>
<text>
The city has spent the past two weeks restoring online services disrupted by ransomware that held encrypted data hostage.
Soon after Atlanta City Auditor Amanda Noble logged onto her work computer the morning of March 22, she knew something was wrong. The icons on her desktop looked different—in some cases replaced with black rectangles—and she noticed many of the files on her desktop had been renamed with “weapologize” or “imsorry” extensions. Noble called the city’s chief information security officer to report the problem and left a message. Next, she called the help desk and was put on hold for a while. “At that point, I realized that I wasn’t the only one in the office with computer problems,” Noble says.
Those computer problems were part of a high-profile “ransomware” cyberattack on the City of Atlanta that has lasted nearly two weeks and has yet to be fully resolved. During that time the metropolis has struggled to recover encrypted data on employees’ computers and restore services on the municipal Web site. The criminals initially gave the city seven days to pay about $51,000 in the cryptocurrency bitcoin to get the decryption key for their data. That deadline came and went last week, yet several services remain offline, suggesting the city likely did not pay the ransom. City officials would not comment on the matter when contacted by Scientific American.
The Department of Watershed Management, for example, still cannot accept online or telephone payments for water and sewage bills, nor can the Department of Finance issue business licenses through its Web page. The Atlanta Municipal Court has been unable to process ticket payments either online or in person due to the outage and has had to reschedule some of its hearings. The city took down two of its online services voluntarily as a security precaution: the Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport wi-fi network and the ability to process service requests via the city’s 311 Web site portal, according to Anne Torres, Atlanta’s director of communications. Both are now back online, with airport wi-fi restored Tuesday morning.
The ransomware used to attack Atlanta is called SamSam. Like most malicious software it typically enters computer networks through software whose security protections have not been updated. When attackers find vulnerabilities in a network, they use the ransomware to encrypt files there and demand payment to unlock them. Earlier this year attackers used a derivative of SamSam to lock up files at Hancock Regional Hospital in Greenfield, Ind. The health care institution paid nearly $50,000 to retrieve patient data. “The SamSam ransomware used to attack Atlanta is interesting because it gets into a network and spreads to multiple computers before locking them up,” says Jake Williams, founder of computer security firm Rendition Infosec. “The victim then has greater incentive to pay a larger ransom in order to regain control of that network of locked computers.”
The city’s technology department—Atlanta Information Management (AIM)—contacted local law enforcement, along with the FBI, Department of Homeland Security, Secret Service and independent forensic experts to help assess the damage and investigate the attack. The attackers set up an online payment portal for the city but soon took the site offline after a local television station published a screen shot of the ransom note, which included a link to the bitcoin wallet meant to collect the ransom.
Several clues indicate Atlanta likely did not pay the attackers, Williams says. “Ransomware gangs typically cut off communications once their victims get law enforcement involved,” he says. “Atlanta made it clear at a press conference soon after the malware was detected” that they had done so. The length of time it has taken to slowly bring services back online also suggests the cyber criminals abandoned Atlanta without decrypting the city’s files, Williams says. “If that’s the case, the city’s IT staff spent the past week rebuilding Atlanta’s online systems using backed-up data that had not been hit by the ransomware,” he says, adding that any data not backed up is likely “lost for good.”
“If the city had paid the ransom, I would have expected them to bring up systems more quickly than they have done,” says Justin Cappos, a professor of computer science and engineering at New York University’s Tandon School of Engineering. “Assuming the city did not pay the ransom, their ability to recover their systems at all shows that they at least did a good job backing up their data.”
</text>

