<title> SCAM WARNING Warning over fake websites offering ‘too good to be true’ Cyber Monday offers on fashion and children’s toys  </title>
<source> https://www.thesun.co.uk/money/7830869/fake-cyber-monday-offers-deals/ </source>
<date> 2018_11_26 </date>
<text>
SCAMMERS are using fake websites to lure in Cyber Monday and Christmas shoppers and take their money.
Be wary of "too good to be true" offers on Fingerlings toys, iPhones and fashion as they're the most common items sold by fraudsters, according to the City of London Police.
With shoppers set to spend £2.96billion by the end of Cyber Monday, fraud experts have warned that scammers will tempt shoppers with suspiciously good deals so they buy their counterfeit items and hand over their card details.
They'll also set up fake websites that look like genuine retailers to trick people into giving away their data and payment details,  according to a new report by Action Fraud and the City of London Police.
Phishing emails containing tempting deals which entice shoppers to click on links to fake websites are also on the rise on Cyber Monday and over the Christmas period, the report said.
Scammers are using social media websites such as Facebook, re-selling websites such as Gumtree and online auction websites such as eBay to target Christmas shoppers, experts revealed.
Mobile phones - particularly Apple iPhones - are the most common item that people try to buy from fraudsters, according to the report.
Seventy-four per cent of all mobiles bought from fraudsters were iPhones, the study said.
Electrical and household items, computers, fashion and accessories are also commonly sold to fraud victims, including Apple MacBooks, Ugg boots and Fingerlings toys - so be wary of "too good to be true" offers for these items.
Women aged between 20 and 29 are the most likely to be caught out by scammers, according to the report, with 30 per cent of fraud reports coming from young women.
But the police have warned that everyone should stay on their guard as anyone can fall victim to Christmas shopping fraudsters.
More than 15,000 shoppers lost a total of £11million to scammers over the Christmas period last year.
Detective Chief Superintendent Pete O’Doherty, of the City of London Police, said: “Unfortunately, at what is an expensive time of year for many, the internet has provided fraudsters with a platform to lure people in with the promise of cheap deals.
He added: “To stop fraudsters in their tracks, be cautious of where and from whom you’re buying, especially if it is technology at a reduced price."
Tony Neate, CEO of Get Safe Online, a free fraud awareness website, said: “It can be easy to rush into making a quick purchase online to secure a must have gift or bargain without taking the time to check that everything is as it seems.
“But taking a couple of minutes to familiarise yourself with a few simple online safety tips can be the difference between getting all your shopping done in time and becoming a victim of online fraud."
There are plenty of Black Friday and Cyber Monday scams around at the moment - we've revealed the latest tricks used by fraudsters.
Meanwhile scammers claiming to be from Tesco are running a fake competition in an attempt to steal your bank details.
</text>

