<title> Phishing Roundup: Caracal, Stealth Mango, Tangelo, Apple, DHL, eFax & More </title>
<source> https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/phishing-roundup-caracal-stealth-mango-tangelo-apple-dhl-efax-and-more/ </source>
<date> 2018_05_20 </date>
<text>
Phishing takes place when a fraudster tricks an individual into sharing sensitive information (account numbers, Social Security numbers, login credentials, etc.) by way of fraudulent emails, texts, or counterfeit websites. Phishing can also enable a scammer to gain access to a computer or network so that they can install malware, such as ransomware, on a victim's computer. Phishers are able to achieve this by spoofing the familiar, trusted logos of established, legitimate companies. Or, they may pose as a friend or family member and are often successful in completely deluding their targets. 
    In carrying out attacks, Dark Caracal uses trojanized WhatsApp and Facebook apps to try to lure users into clicking malicious links and downloading Android malware, called Pallas, which can collect vast amounts of data. Dark Caracal targets include governments, military organizations, utilities, financial institutions, manufacturing companies and defense contractors.
    Stealth Mango (Android) and Tangelo (iOS), discovered by Lookout Security Intelligence, are surveillanceware tools that target government officials, diplomats, activists and military personnel, specifically in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, India and the UAE. According to Lookout Security, “data from U.S., Australian, and German officials and military have been swept up in the campaign we believe is being run by members in the Pakistani military.”
    Fake eFax email deceives email recipients by telling them they have received ‘a new eFax’ and that they need to click on a link button in the email to retrieve the document. The link goes to a phishing page. This is not a new attack, but has recently been spotted in emails again.
    Email filtering company, Mailguard, has picked up a fake E-Toll notification containing an infected .doc file. According to Mailguard, the file contains a malicious macro that will download malware to the victim’s computer. The notification also includes the logos of Microsoft Office and Mailguard in order to appear authentic. It even goes as far as to claim that, “this document is protected by MailGuard".
    DHL branding was mimicked and fake shipping notifications were sent out, asking recipients to download an attached file that contained highly destructive trojan malware.     
    “MEWKit” is a phishing attack that directly steals Ethereum from users of MyEtherWallet. Using MyEtherWallet as bait, it attempts to trick Ethereum investors into logging in to the bogus, cloned version of the website in order to steal their credentials.   
    Gmail’s new Confidential Mode may invite link-baiting phishing attacks. According to analysis by ComputerWorld, “Confidential Mode works by storing your email in a secure space on Google servers in the cloud. When both sender and recipient use Gmail, the email appears normal. But recipients who do not use Gmail get a link for viewing the email in a browser. The messages you send or receive via Confidential Mode are not actually email. The link is an email, but the message is an email-looking page on the internet that’s password-protected. Emails containing the link can, in fact, be forwarded, but only the intended recipient can successfully open the link. When someone gets one of these forwarded mails, they’re prompted for their Google login username and password to determine whether or not they’re the intended recipient. This is problematic, because it invites link-baiting phishing attacks, which could con people into revealing their login information.”
    A phishing campaign targeting Apple users seeks to dupe victims into updating their profiles in preparation for the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) policies, which go into effect on May 25. This is just one of many scams exploiting the coming implementation of GDPR policies.
</text>

