<title>Code Execution Vulnerability Found in Libpurple IM Library | Threatpost | The first stop for security news</title>
<source> https://threatpost.com/code-execution-vulnerability-found-in-libpurple-im-library/124448/ </source>
<date> 2017_03_22 </date>
<text>
A severe vulnerability has been disclosed in libpurple, the library used in the development of a number of popular instant messaging clients, including Pidgin and Adium for the macOS platform.
Adium 1.5.10.2 is vulnerable and can be exploited to run arbitrary code remotely.
A researcher who goes by the handle Erythronium submitted a post on March 15 to the Adium developers mailing list about the issue.
While there’s been some discussion of a fix for CVE-2017-2640, no Adium advisory or patches have been released.
In the meantime, Erythronium told Threatpost that libpurple and Adium should no longer be used.
“Unless the [Adium] dev team comes out with an advisory about this issue, a serious apology, a completely solid story about how they plan to handle future vulnerabilities in their codebase and its dependencies, and a way for people to reproduce their builds without depending on a creepy binary blob of libpurple, people should simply stop using it,” the researcher said.
“It’s also very arguable that people should stop using libpurple completely, since it also lacks strong security practices in its development”.
A request for comment from two members of the Adium team was not returned in time for publication.
“Adium’s build process documentation does not seem to include steps for upgrading or rebuilding libpurple, and the copy of libpurple checked into Adium’s open-source repository as a binary blob of unknown provenance,” Erythronium wrote in a post to the Full Disclosure mailing list.
Adium is a freely available IM client for the Apple platform, and users may connect a number of other IM networks to it, including AIM, Google Talk, Yahoo Messenger and others.
It’s written using the Cocoa API in macOS, and also supports Off the Record (OTR) encryption over XMPP.
Libpurple is used in a number of IM programs, including Pidgin on Windows Linux and UNIX builds and Finch, a text-based IM program for Linux and UNIX.
The vulnerability is an out-of-bounds write flaw that happens when invalid XML is sent by an attacker, Pidgin said in an advisory.
“Successfully exploiting this issue may allow an attacker to cause a denial-of-service condition, execute arbitrary code or perform unauthorized actions,” said a SecurityFocus advisory.
The use of messaging apps that support encryption have been encouraged since the Snowden disclosures and other challenges to secure communication such as Apple vs. FBI.
Adium specifically was included in a Privacy Pack recommended by the Electronic Frontier Foundation in the months following the Snowden leaks.
The pack was a collection of tools for privacy conscious users, and included the Tor browser, encryption extensions for browsers, HTTPS Everywhere, and Pidgin and Adium for encrypted chats.
Enterprise applications from Oracle and others could be becoming juicier targets for attackers.
Developers using the Twilio platform to build enterprise mobile communications apps have put call and text data at risk for exposure.
Between $150 million and $300 million in digital currency called ether remains inaccessible today after a user said he “accidentally” triggered a vulnerability that froze the funds in the popular Parity wallet.
</text>