<title>Positive Technologies discovers vulnerabilities in SAP solutions</title>
<source> https://www.ptsecurity.com/ww-en/about/news/231396/ </source>
<date> 2017_04_27 </date>
<text>
Positive Technologies has today confirmed it has detected vulnerabilities in SAP Enterprise Portal Navigation, SAP NetWeaver Log Viewer and SAP Enterprise Portal Theme Editor, which are the components of the SAP NetWeaver platform. By exploiting these security flaws, attackers can intercept login credentials, register keystrokes, spoof data or perform other illegal activities that could potentially lead to a system compromise.
Four Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities were detected in the following SAP Enterprise Portal components: SAP Enterprise Portal Navigation (CVSSv3 score 6.1) and SAP Enterprise Portal Theme Editor (three flaws with CVSSv3 scores 5.4, 6.1, and 6.1). 
Exploiting these vulnerabilities, an attacker could obtain access to a victim's session tokens, login credentials or other sensitive information in the browser, perform arbitrary actions on the victim's behalf, rewrite HTML page content and intercept keystrokes. The relevant remediation guidelines are described in SAP Security notes No. 2369469, 2372183, 2372204, and 2377626.
Another vulnerability—Directory Traversal (CVSSv3 score 5.9)—allows arbitrary file upload in SAP NetWeaver Log Viewer. Attackers can upload a malformed archive that contains files with special characters in their names. When the web application unpacks the archive, it resolves symbols "." and "/" as a part of the correct file path, so attackers can exploit the Directory Traversal vulnerability and upload files to an arbitrary place on the server file system.
The consequences of arbitrary file upload can include total compromise of a system, overload of a file system or database, expanding attacks to back-end systems and defacement. The impact of this vulnerability is high, as arbitrary code can be executed on the server. SAP Security note No. 2370876 describes the activities required to eliminate this flaw. 
Dmitry Gutsko, Head of the Business System Security Unit at Positive Technologies said: "Large companies all over the world use SAP to manage financial flows, product lifecycle, relationships with vendors and clients, company resources, procurement, and other critical business processes. It is vital to protect the information stored in SAP systems as any breach of confidential information could have a devastating impact on the business."
In order to identify vulnerabilities in SAP products, perform inventory checks on these systems, manage updates and analyze settings, configurations, and permissions, Positive Technologies’ MaxPatrol vulnerability and compliance management solution has been certified by SAP for integration with SAP NetWeaver. In addition, Positive Technologies Application Firewall (PT AF) detects attacks, including those that leverage zero-day vulnerabilities, in SAP NetWeaver, SAP ICM, SAP Management Console, and SAP SOAP RFC using special security profiles. 
Positive Technologies Application Inspector also supports analysis of Java applications for the SAP NetWeaver Java platform.
</text>
