<title>Sneaky Gmail phishing attack fools with fake Google Docs app | CSO Online</title>
<source> http://www.csoonline.com/article/3194331/security/sneaky-gmail-phishing-attack-fools-with-fake-google-docs-app.html </source>
<date> 2017_05_04 </date>
<text>
Google Docs was pulled into a sneaky email phishing attack on Tuesday that was designed to trick users into giving up access to their Gmail accounts.
The phishing emails, which circulated for about three hours before Google stopped them, invited the recipient to open what appeared to be a Google Doc. The teaser was a blue box that said, “Open in Docs.”
In reality, the link led to a dummy app that asked users for permission to access their Gmail account.
An example of the phishing email that circulated on Tuesday.
Users might easily have been fooled, because the dummy app was actually named “Google Docs.” It also asked for access to Gmail through Google’s actual login service.
The hackers were able to pull off the attack by abusing the OAuth protocol, a way for internet accounts at Google, Twitter, Facebook and other services to connect with third-party apps.  
The OAuth protocol doesn’t transfer any password information, but instead uses special access tokens that can open account access.
However, OAuth can be dangerous in the wrong hands. The hackers behind Tuesday’s attack appear to have built an actual third-party app that leveraged Google processes to gain account access.
The dummy app will try to ask for account permission. 
Last month, Trend Micro said a Russian hacking group known as Fancy Bear was using a similar email attack method that abused the OAuth protocol to phish victims.
However, security experts said Tuesday's phishing attack probably wasn't from Fancy Bear, a shadowy group that many experts suspect works for the Russian government.
"I don't believe they are behind this ... because this is way too widespread," Jaime Blasco, chief scientist at security provider AlienVault, said in an email. 
On Tuesday, many users on Twitter, including journalists, posted screen shots of the phishing emails, prompting speculation that the hackers were harvesting victims' contact lists to target more users.
The attack was also sent through an email address at "hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh@mailinator.com." Mailinator, a provider of a free email service, denied any involvement. 
Fortunately, Google moved quickly to stop the phishing attacks, after a user on Reddit posted about them.
“We’ve removed the fake pages, pushed updates through Safe Browsing, and our abuse team is working to prevent this kind of spoofing from happening again,” Google said in a statement.
Security experts and Google recommend affected users check what third-party apps have permission to access their account and revoke any suspicious access. Users can do so by visiting this address, or performing a Google security check-up.

Tuesday's phishing scheme will probably push Google to adopt an even stricter stance on apps that use OAuth, said Robert Graham, CEO of research company Errata Security.
However, the internet giant has to strike a balance between ensuring security and fostering a flourishing app ecosystem. 
"The more vetting you do, the more you stop innovation," Graham said. "It's a trade-off."
</text>
