<title>WWE Divas Charlotte Flair, Victoria Latest Victims of Leaked Photos</title>
<source> https://www.hackread.com/wwe-divas-charlotte-flair-victoria-leaked-photos/ </source>
<date> 2017_05_08 </date>
<text>
Earlier this week, private photos and video clip of the famous WWE Divas Lisa Marie Varon known by her WWE name Victoria and Charlotte Flair were leaked online the internet. The photos showed Charlotte taking selfies of herself in front of the mirror using her iPhone while in Lisa’s case a video clip in her private moments along with selfies taken from her iPhone have been leaked.
Her original name being Ashley Fliehr, the WWE woman wrestler is the daughter of Ric Flair, who is again a well-known wrestling legend. She is considered as one of the most popular WWE stars having been the women’s champion for up to four times. She began her career by first appearing on NXT in 2013, and after a year, she managed to win NXT Women’s Championship.
Later, she won the WWE Divas Championship after being promoted to the main roster in 2015. She had also been married twice. Her first marriage was in 2010 with Riki Johnson. They later filed for divorce and Flair then married Bram in 2013. They got divorced in 2015.
Flair also had a brother, Reid, who was found dead in March 2013, in Charlotte’s bed and it was revealed that he died from heroin overdose.
Flair tweeted about her photos being leaked saying that her photos were shared online without her consent and demanded that they should be removed immediately. Upon this, there were a plethora of supporters who emerged on Twitter, showing their support for Flair with the hashtag 
Flair, however, is not the only victim whose photos have been leaked so unscrupulously. Alexa Bliss, who currently holds the title of RAW Women’s Champion, had her photos leaked as well on April 28. Alexa tweeted that the photos are fake and demanded that they should be taken down immediately.
Similarly, Paige, who was WWE Divas Champion, had her private photos hacked along with explicit videos that were made public online. She later wrote that she felt quite bad and wanted to harm herself for days after the leak. Furthermore, private photos of WWE Divas including Maria Kanellis, Melina Perez, Kaitlyn and Summer Rae were also leaked on different online platforms.
That’s not all, it was about two months ago when hackers leaked private photos of prominent Hollywood celebrities like Amanda Seyfried, Emma Watson. However, It is quite unnerving and yet troubling to see how these WWE stars are being exploited and no attention is being paid to the security standards of mobile communication. It is vital that network operators look into the issue immediately and build proper security features to prevent such infiltrations.
</text>
