<title>What You Need To Know About The iMessage Security Flaw</title>
<source> http://www.pandasecurity.com/mediacenter/technology/need-know-imessage-security-flaw/ </source>
<date> 2017_01_23 </date>
<text>
With everything that’s gone down in 2016 it’s easy to forget Tim Cook’s and Apple’s battle with the FBI over data encryption laws.
Apple took a strong stance though, and other tech giants followed suite leading to a victory of sorts for (the little guy in) online privacy.
In this era of web exposure, it was a step in the right direction for those who feel our online identities are increasingly vulnerable on the web.
All of this stands for little though when a security flaw in your operating system allows carefully encrypted messages to be effectively decrypted offline.
That’s what happened to Apple with its iOS 9.2 operating system.
Though the patches that ensued largely fixed the problem, the whole issue has understandably left iOS users with questions.
What really happened and are we at immediate risk?
A paper released in March by researchers at John Hopkins University exposed weaknesses in Apple’s iMessage encryption protocol.
It was found that a determined hacker could intercept the encrypted messages between two iPhones and reveal the 64-digit key used to decrypt the messages.
As iMessage doesn’t use a Message Authentication Code (MAC) or authenticated encryption scheme, it’s possible for the raw encryption stream, or “ciphertext” to be tampered with.
iMessage instead, uses an ECDSA signature which simulates the functionality.
It’s still no easy feat exploiting the security flaw detailed by the researchers.
The attacker would ultimately have to predict or know parts of the message they are decrypting in order to substitute these parts in the ciphertext.
Knowing whether the substitution has been successful though, is a whole other process which may only be possible with attachment messages.
The full details of the security flaw, and the complex way it can be exploited are detailed in the John Hopkins paper.
The paper includes the recommendation that, in the long run, “Apple should replace the entirety of iMessage with a messaging system that has been properly designed and formally verified”.
One thing that should be made clear is that these weaknesses were exposed as a result of months of investigation by an expert team of cryptologists.
The type of hacker that would take advantage of these weaknesses would undeniably be a sophisticated attacker.
That of course doesn’t mean that Apple shouldn’t take great measures to eradicate this vulnerability in their system.
Your messages, though, are not immediately at risk of being decrypted, and much less if you’ve installed the patches that came with iOS 9.3 and OS X 10.11.4 (though they don’t completely fix the problem).
Tellingly, the flaws can’t be used to exploit numerous devices at the same time.
As already mentioned, the process that was exposed by the John Hopskins paper is incredibly complex and relies on various steps that are by no means easy to complete successfully.
</text>
