<title>Hundreds of Thousands of Netgear Routers Vulnerable to Password Bypass | Threatpost | The first stop for security news</title>
<source> https://threatpost.com/hundreds-of-thousands-of-netgear-routers-vulnerable-to-password-bypass/123462/ </source>
<date> 2017_01_31 </date>
<text>
Hundreds of thousands–potentially more than one million–Netgear routers are susceptible to a pair of vulnerabilities that can lead to password disclosure.
Researchers said that while anyone who has physical access to a router can exploit the vulnerabilities locally, the real threat is that the flaw can also be exploited remotely.
According to Simon Kenin, a security researcher with Trustwave’s Spiderlabs team, who discovered the flaw and disclosed it Monday, the vulnerabilities can be remotely exploited if the router’s remote management option is enabled.
While Netgear claims remote management is turned off on routers by default, Kenin said there are “hundreds of thousands, if not over a million” devices left remotely accessible.
Kenin claims that all he had to do was send a simple request to the router’s web management server to retrieve a router’s password.
After determining a number that corresponds to a password recovery token, he found he could pair it with a call to the router’s passwordrecovered.cgi script.
Kenin claims he made his discovery by leveraging two exploits disclosed in 2014 on some Netgear routers he had hanging around.
It wasn’t until after Kenin pieced together a python script designed to diagnose the scope of the issue that he determined he could still retrieve the router’s credentials even if he didn’t send the correct password recovery token.
“After few trials and errors trying to reproduce the issue, I found that the very first call to passwordrecovered.cgi will give out the credentials no matter what the parameter you send.
This is totally new bug that I haven’t seen anywhere else.
When I tested both bugs on different NETGEAR models, I found that my second bug works on a much wider range of models,” Kenin wrote Monday.
Kenin’s employer, Trustwave, divulged details around both vulnerabilities in a lengthy blog post Monday, putting the wraps on a nearly year-long odyssey with the vendor.
The firm first disclosed the vulnerability to Netgear in April 2016, initially it listing 18 vulnerable models, before listing 25 vulnerable models in a subsequent advisory.
After repeated requests for an update on a fix for the vulnerability, Netgear finally obliged in July and provided firmware updates for a fraction of the affected routers.
It wasn’t until this weekend that Netgear acknowledged the issues again, posting an updated version of the article on its support page, instructing users to find and download the appropriate firmware fixes.
The most recent version of the advisory claims there are 31 vulnerable models, 18 of which are patched.
The company is encouraging users of some devices in which firmware is not available to implement a workaround.
According to Netgear, users of 12 different models would be best served to manually enable password recovery and disable remote management on their devices.
“The potential for password exposure remains if you do not complete both steps.
NETGEAR is not responsible for any consequences that could have been avoided by following the recommendations in this notification,” the company writes.
It’s the first critical vulnerability to affect Netgear routers this year but the second in the last two months.
In December, it was discovered that a handful of the company’s Nighthawk line of routers were vulnerable to a flaw that could have given an attacker root access on the device and allowed them to run remote code.
The company was quick to release beta firmware updates to address the vulnerability but simultaneously confirmed that more routers than originally reported were vulnerable.
When reached Wednesday, a Netgear spokesperson said it was aware of the vulnerability and that it was appreciative of the research Trustwave carried out.
Trustwave discloses an unpatched vulnerability in Brother printers with the Debut embedded webserver after numerous attempts to contact the vendor failed.
</text>
