<title>29,000 taxpayers affected by W-2 scams, IRS issues new warning | CSO Online</title>
<source> http://www.csoonline.com/article/3165418/security/29000-taxpayers-affected-by-w-2-scams-irs-issues-new-warning.html </source>
<date> 2017_02_06 </date>
<text>
Last week, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a new warning to employers, urging them to stay alert as reports of compromised W-2 records started to climb.
This newest advisory aligns with the agency's plan to delay refunds for those filing their returns early in order to combat identity theft and fraud.
The IRS also informed employers the W-2 scam has moved beyond corporations, expanding to include schools, tribal organizations, and nonprofits.
In a statement, IRS Commissioner, John Koskinen, said the scams - sometimes known as Business Email Compromise (BEC) attacks - are some of the most dangerous email scams the agency has seen in a long time.
[ Learn about top security certifications: Who they're for, what they cost, and which you need.
"It can result in the large-scale theft of sensitive data that criminals can use to commit various crimes, including filing fraudulent tax returns.
We need everyone’s help to turn the tide against this scheme," Koskinen said.
In 2016, at least 145 organizations fell victim to BEC scams, exposing tens of thousands of employees to tax fraud and identity theft.
Salted Hash kept track of some of the high-profile cases, and Databreaches.net tracked everything, resulting in a massive list of documented successful attacks.
As of February 5, 23 organizations have disclosed BEC-related data breaches publicly, each one resulting in compromised W-2 data.
The confirmed BEC victims include ten school systems, a software development firm, a utility company in Pennsylvania, at least one restaurant in Indianapolis, and businesses operating within the healthcare, finance, manufacturing, and energy sectors.
Distribution International emailed employees that their W-2 data was compromised on January 27.
Their notification expands the number of affected taxpayers to more than 30,000.
The scammers spoofed an email and pretended to be one of the company's owners.
W-2 records for all companies and all employees were compromised.
Salted Hash reached out to Sky Climber's CFO, Jeff Caswell, for more information.
Also, the College of Southern Idaho has reported an incident that could impact 3,000 employees.
According to Public Information Officer Doug Maughan, the W-2 records affected belong to seasonal and auxiliary staff.
Palomar College disclosed an attack on January 30, which affected employee W-2 records.
The school didn't say the incident was the result of a BEC attack, but Salted Hash is listing it anyway due to the timing of the attack and the information targeted.
Finally today, the West Michigan Whitecaps - a Class A minor league baseball team affiliated with the Detroit Tigers - said staff W-2 records were compromised after someone posing as a manager requested them.
In 2016, the criminals behind the BEC attacks mostly focused on payroll and tax records.
This year though, the IRS says that in addition to the usual records request, the scammers are now following-up and requesting wire transfers.
"Although not tax related, the wire transfer scam is being coupled with the W-2 scam email, and some companies have lost both employees’ W-2s and thousands of dollars due to wire transfers," the IRS explained in their warning.
"Employers should consider creating an internal policy, if one is lacking, on the distribution of employee W-2 information and conducting wire transfers."
BEC attacks are essentially Phishing scams, or Spear Phishing since the criminals have a specific target.
They're effective too, exploiting the trust relationships that exist within the corporate environment.
In a majority of the reported cases from 2016, the attackers forged an email and pretended to be the victim organization's top executive, or someone with direct authority.
Often it is the CEO or CFO, but any high-level manager will work.
</text>
